
-If the sbptr is zero, there is no translation (during boot, there is no translation set).
Caches would/should be invalidated once the SBPTR changes from zero to X.

-Add separate path for the prefetch drop.

--------------
Simplify LD/LD and memory fence speculation.

 -When a LD speculates across an unknown LD or a memory fence. A "spec bit id
is selected", the unknown LD (there may be many) or fence is marked with the
spec bit id, and the touched cache lines is marked too.

 -When the marked instruction solves the guarantee of miss speculation (older
memory op in fence, or ld address resolved in unknown LD), the speculated
bit in the instruction is cleared.

 -When there are no speculated bits in-flight in the processor, that given speculated
bit is cleared.

 -If a line is displaced, and the speculated bit is set, the core gets notified
and a NUKE starting from that instruction is triggered.

 -This allows to speculate across transactions. Not committed transaction
boundaries are are "speculative boundaries". When the older transaction is
guaranteed to commit, the speculative bit is cleared.

 -Ideally, we want a bit per "speculative bit even" but it is not needed. If
the restarts are zero, all can share the bit and does not matter. This means that
2 bits may be enough. 2 bits allow to keep clearing the "spec bit id" as instructions
finish/retire. If no bit is set, pick one. If a bit is set, older instructions use
the same bit. Newer instructions use a newer bit. If there are no bits left, use the
newer one (do not interleave in program order if possible)

--------------
try to avoid starting the SRAM read half cycle (do we???). It requires a very square
clock.

--------------
Problems with L2TLB:

 FIXME: we need snoop_table

  The snoop comes from the directory. The L2TLB has to invalidate any "set" of
entries that used these loads.

  The page walk has 3 loads. Any change in any of the tables (1,2,3rd level)
should trigger invalidates on the TLB. The 3rd level can invalidate 8 entries
(64bytes cache line /8 bytes per entry = 8 entries).  The 2nd level can
invalidate LOTS of entries.

 To keep track. I would have a hash table that for a given address it tracks
which entries to clear. To keep less state, each snoop I would check if any of
the 8 entries are in the TLB (state machine).

 If there is a snoop and there is a tag hit but has no bits set, the directory
should invalidate the WOLE TLB. Maybe, we can have an extra bit (multi-entry)
and the 8 bits indicate the chunks of L2 TLB that must be invalidated. Ideally,
1/8 TLB NUKE in snoop_table miss vs whole TLB NUKE.

 The table translates from (DR_hpaddr) to L2TLB_HPADDR. (DR_hpaddr has around
24 bits. This is a direct mapped table keeping track of hits with a tag check

 snoop_table(DR_hpaddr) -> tag + 8 bits. 1 bit indicating if the entry in that
cache line was kept in the directory

-L2 SNOOP to L2 cache and L1 cache notification

 When a L2TLB entry is snooped. It must notify the L1 cache to uncache the TLB
entry.

 The L2 cache does not need to "uncache" the entry. It is only needed if the
memory attributes change. In this case, all the caches are WB invalidated.

 The L1 cache must invalidate all the entries associated with the L2 TLB snoop.
The L2 TLB provides the hpaddr (l1 tag), but does not provide the list of laddr/entries
that can have this hpaddr cached.

 FIXME: traverse the L1 TLB tags, and invalidate any entry that has TLB match
(slow).  There are 32 sets and 2 sets of tags. In 16 cycles, we can traverse
the whole cache tags.

 FIXME: abort current transaction if TLB walk hits any cache entry with versioning.
If abort, notify that it was due to TLB, no error in transaction, just TLB
management.  (Possible to delay until transaction finishes but some corner
issues).

  Remember 2 last snoops. If a request hits any of the last snoops (or 3 snoops
wants to be remembered) the current transaction aborts. Every time that a
transaction finishes, the "last snoops" are cleared.

 FIXME: we need l1tlbtol1_cmd ack to indicate when the L1 has finished
invalidating the L1 entries as a result of the L2 TLB snoop.
 
 FIXME: Do not start the L2 TLB invalidate until the L1 TLB invalida sends an
ack. The reason is that the L1 TLB can send a disp to update A/D bits.

-----------------

 FIXME: coreid is confusing. Better to call it reqid

-----------------

Try to do a bridge between our interface and tile-link?


